Rinpoche teaches the highest teaching, the most essential teaching, most powerful teachings,
and we have the dedication and joyful effort and courage and commitment, and we really
observe this teaching in the heart and not linger in too many different directions. Truly we will
get
enlightenment within this lifetime. That's the teaching. So many people, the individuals reach
enlightenment in that realization status in that status. And in the teaching said, three years,
six years, twelve years, those are the reviews of the teaching series. So if you practice it,
for example, of course, Longchenpa is highly enlightened beings. I was sovereign when I was
taught the word in this world. But through his research with the teaching and I dedicated his
practice to the teaching that what he received from his root teacher, Rizikumar Raza, everyone said
he
reached enlightenment within six years. Also he said he's going to make the offering of the
practice and offering to his teachers. In an external level, Longchenpa was not rich. Not rich,
there's nothing to material offering to that he can make to the teacher, upper receiver, all those
teachings, those profound teaching of Zoki. But he said I will make the practices and practice it
and that will make offering for you. And as he did this and he practiced for six years,
and three years or six years, and within that he reached enlightenment. And so many people,
and in Youngchenpa practiced about three years, three years, and then he become one of the great
yogi and enlightened beings in the Tibetan Buddhist history stories. I mean, there's just so many
people
put that because why they really reach enlightenment? Why they because they're because their joy,
their devotions, their bodhicata, their apohek is siddhala, is the praise, is not heading way,
start with something beautiful, nice and kind of excitement, and then just kind of heading way.
That is not every day they're renewed, every moment they're renewed, that sizzling thoughts.
Read life story as I said the other day, and life story of those great masters,
how much they have devotions, how much they have compare of bodhicatas,
how much they have joy and applications, and courage and commitments, and also
nutemity, kind of like so much this and that things alter, but really courage and commitment,
confidence. When you are kind of observe the teaching like that, and observe that,
and preserve that teaching with that, and practice it, then truly it will break the result.
Even we sleep for one hour, kind of good meditation practice, we see some difference,
our stop. Even we have so heavy all these things, even one hour, or how hour we could practice
meditation,
kind of good one, sizzling energy, sizzling college, really it makes difference, difference.
I mean this is not just how we talk it, this is the universal proof, I mean now I'm modern time,
and now these days so many minds were meditating, so that's happening, because they see some
benefit,
that work, how much they meditate, three minutes, three minutes, maybe 15 minutes,
kind of hands all together, stay quiet and peaceful, even that bread resolved.
I mean these tell us, therefore this joy and respect and appreciation, I mean all this what I
said, this is so important, with this zobti teaching or the vegayana teaching, we put that together
,
truly, really we will get, make the difference, we will get, and as great master Padra Ramayana
said,
if you didn't get enlightened in these lifetimes, truly you will be one of the happiest and most
contented and peaceful journey of persons in the lives, and leave this world with that same manner,
same quality, with joy and happy and peaceful, not regret and not feel bad and this and that things
,
and truly kind of like looking forward, forward the next one, truly that way, and no fears,
no afraid, no scared, truly that's what the by the practice, so this all nearly comes, this the
practice and that teaching, that what these great masters practice, that's what we've been
discussed,
we follow their struggles, one after another, great master, master Shabwa Taururanda, bought the
teachings of Lomchimpa, teachings of Dhyunbi Lomba, teachings of his root teacher, and applied his
own
experience and nuggetly sharing this teaching to us, how we can activate it, boost our realizations
,
understand, so that's what the teaching is.